# Top 2 Cyber Cert Pick
So I decided to make this for certificates that I want right as I leave High School. These are my top 2 Picks. Keep in mind these certs I would love to achieve as soon as I leave high school, or while im still in it.
## [GFACT](https://www.giac.org/certifications/foundational-cybersecurity-technologies-gfact/)
GFACT (GIAC Foundational Cybersecurity Technologies) is a cert that gives a lot of leeway. Its also probably in my opinion one of the better certs on this list that an employer would more likely want to see for an entry level Cyber Security Job. It covers so much topic and gives the employer of a great understanding of what material you might know. It also is more on the professional side. 
## [CompTIA Secuirty+](https://www.comptia.org/certifications/security)
I think when we all hear CompTIA, we all immediately think overrated or overused, but nonetheless it's a great Cert. First, most beginner Cyber Programs or curricula have the end goal of the person passing this test. A test that's seen all over, but never gets old with employees. Once again it covers a wide range of topics, but it is slightly less challenging than GFACT. It cost significantly less too. It's much more known than GFACT and has a better community and support built around it, so CompTIA would probably be my first Cert that I try to get. And even though GFACT covers a lot of topics, I would argue that Security+ covers more topics which makes it harder in that aspect. 
Overall they are both great exam, where I would probably go for the CompTIA exam first then try the GFACT exam. 
